#Pallet

##tl;dr

Pallet is a simple package-management system for Emacs.

It uses rejeep's excellent [Carton](https://github.com/rejeep/carton.git) as a
platform to keep track of your installed packages.

You can install it, via [Melpa](http://melpa.milkbox.net), using
`package-list-packages`.

##What problem does Pallet solve?

You are an Emacs user, and you use package.el to maintain a set of installed
packages, via the Elpa archive (and/or Melpa, Marmalade, whatever). You use
Emacs at more than one site or on more than one machine, and you want to use the
same packages with each Emacs installation.

The standard way of synchronising settings among Emacs installs is to keep your
emacs.d directory under version control, perhaps using Git. That way, you can
simply push your settings to a repo when they change, and pull them at another
site. This way of working also works with the `/elpa` subdirectory of emacs.d,
keeping your installed packages in a versioned repository.

###Package management

Working this way with the `/elpa` directory quickly becomes a chore, though. The
directory can become large and complex, and you can encounter merge conflicts
when trying to synchronise it across Emacs installs. The solution is a
dependency management system (like Ruby's [Bundler](http://gembundler.com), for
example) which allows you to keep one 'manifest' file under version control, and
ignore the *actual* installed packages; the manifest file lists packages and
versions, and the dependency manager can install and update the listed packages
whenever required to.

###Carton

[Carton](https://github.com/rejeep/carton.git) is a dependency manager for
Emacs, which is gaining currency especially in new Elisp projects. It provides a
simple format for creating manifest files, and a set of functionality to install
and update packages (as well as some very useful utilities for package
*development*).

The piece missing from Carton is the functionality to create and maintain a
manifest file *in tandem* with package.el, Emacs' built-in package system.

You can, of course, manually maintain your Carton (manifest) file, but most of
us like to use `M-x package-list-packages` to discover and install
packages. Pallet lets you do exactly this.

##How does it work?

First, you need to install Pallet (via Melpa being the easiest way), and
`(require 'pallet)` in your Emacs initialisation file.

`M-x pallet-init` will look at your installed packages and source archives and
create a valid Carton file in your Emacs directory. You now no longer need to
keep your `/elpa` directory under version control; simply keep your Carton file
under version control, and use Carton to keep your packages synchronised across
Emacs installs.

Pallet will update your Carton file when you close Emacs, or when you run `M-x
pallet-repack`, so you can use `M-x package-list-packages` (or any other method)
to install and delete packages as normal.

You can install your Carton-managed packages using `pallet-install`, and update
them using `pallet-update`. These commands are just interactive aliases of the
relevant Carton functions.

##Alternatives

[el-get](https://github.com/dimitri/el-get) is a popular and feature-packed
project which does much more than Pallet. Pallet just tries to do one simple
thing well enough.

##What's coming?

More configurability, maybe package versioning and rollbacks, dependency
awareness ... tell me what you need, or, better, contribute.

